---
title: Print statements
description: The `print()` function is used to display output on the screen. It allows you to show messages, variables, or the result of expressions in your code.
---

In Python, the `print()` function is used to display output on the screen. It allows you to show messages, variables, or the result of expressions in your code.

To use the `print()` function, you simply write `print()` followed by the content you want to display. Here's an example:

```python
print("Hello, world!")
```

In this example, we use the `print()` function to display the message "Hello, world!" on the screen. When you run this code, you will see the output "Hello, world!" displayed in the console.

You can also print variables by including them as arguments inside the `print()` function. For example:

```python
name = "John"
age = 15
print("My name is", name, "and I am", age, "years old.")
```

In this code, we have two variables `name` and `age`. We use the `print()` function to display a message that includes the values of these variables. The output will be "My name is John and I am 15 years old."

You can also print the result of expressions or calculations. For example:

```python
x = 5
y = 3
print("The sum of", x, "and", y, "is", x + y)
```

In this code, we use the `print()` function to display a message that includes the sum of `x` and `y`. The output will be "The sum of 5 and 3 is 8."

Additionally, you can use special characters inside the `print()` function to format your output. For example:

```python
name = "John"
age = 15
print("My name is %s and I am %d years old." % (name, age))
```

In this code, we use the `%s` and `%d` placeholders to format the output. The `%s` is used for strings, and `%d` is used for integers. The values of `name` and `age` are passed as arguments to the `%` operator.

These are just a few examples of how you can use the `print()` function in Python. It is a useful tool for displaying information and debugging your code.
