---
title: Variable assignment
description: Variables are used to store values that can be used later in your code. Think of a variable as a container that holds a value. You can give a variable any name you want, as long as it follows certain rules.
---

Variables are used to store values that can be used later in your code. Think of a variable as a container that holds a value. You can give a variable any name you want, as long as it follows certain rules.

To assign a value to a variable, you use the equals sign (`=`). Here's an example:

```python
my_variable = 10
```

In this example, we created a variable called `my_variable` and assigned it the value of `10`. Now, whenever we refer to `my_variable` in our code, it will have the value of `10`.

You can also assign different types of values to variables. For example, you can assign a string (a sequence of characters) to a variable:

```python
my_name = "John"
```

In this case, `my_name` is a variable that holds the value `"John"`. You can use this variable later in your code to refer to the string `"John"`.

You can also assign the result of an expression to a variable. For example:

```python
x = 5 + 3
```

In this case, `x` is a variable that holds the value `8`, which is the result of the expression `5 + 3`.

Variables can be changed or updated throughout your code. You can assign a new value to a variable by simply using the equals sign again:

```python
x = 10
x = x + 5
```

In this example, we first assign the value `10` to `x`. Then, we update `x` by adding `5` to its current value. After this code runs, `x` will have the value `15`.

Remember, when you assign a value to a variable, you can use that variable later in your code to refer to the value. This allows you to store and manipulate data in your programs.
